[Pregel: a system for large-scale graph processing](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1807184)

Graph plays an important role in science experiments, engineering computing and business analysis. For example, the Facebook social network is a graph. Nowadays, the amount of edges and vertices are growth in order of magnitude, which make the graph too big to be analyzed on a single computer. Moreover, it is hard to implement graph algorthms on distributed systems with fault-tolerance and efficient. To address this problem, different organizations have different solutions, Google developed Pregel, and the success of Pregen led to Hadoop's Giraph.

To deploy graph computing on distributed system, the first problem should be solved is to propose a method could compuing as a chain instead of a network. This concept also appeared in MapReduce, named narrow dependency. In this case, Pregel use time series to record information, named *supersteps*. In each superstep, vertexes run a user defined function whose parameters are messages sent from other vertexes at the last superstep and send messages to other vertexes. Moreover, to reduce the processing time, the function in each superstep is parallelized. This is an intuitive solution, which is similar with MapReduce. Both of them are focus on the local tasks and ensure this distributed system is efficient. To deliver messages, a vertex could either read the value from remote nodes or the remote nodes send messages to this vertex. In practice, nodes in Pregel always send messages to other nodes to reduce the latency and enable asynchronously computing.

The termination of the algorithm is not based on the result, but on whether any vertex is still active. A vertex could vote to suspended itself, and also could be invoked by messages from other vertexes. Not only this feature can coordinate nodes and reduce the traffic, Pregel also uses methods, like combiner and aggregator, to guarantee fault tolerance and improve performance.

If we put Pregel in the context of previews systems, we can find lots of differences, but also lots of similarities. MapReduce could be used to solve graph problems, but those algorithms are not optimized for graph. Specifically, as a general system, MapReduce process graph data by chained invocations, which will lead to extra communication overhead. Meanwhile, Pregel optimizes lots of graph operator to become efficient. Moreover, the previews systems use specific node(s) as manager node(s), however, Pregel selects a random worker node as manager, which make it easy to deploy on other distributed storage system, like GFS. Also, like file partitions, the graph is also divided into few partitions. Because most transmissions are limited in an area, this method reduces the volume of transmission among partitions and accelerate the computing in area. Besides, the [[Giraph]] on Hadoop is inspired by Pregel and [[GraphFrames]] on Spark also supports Pregel-like operation.

From the results of experiments, we can conclude that the runtime increases linearly as the data increases linearly. This is a very ideal time complexity for distributed system.